---
title: Research Topics
layout: page
---

Our research focuses on a wide range of deep learning methods and their applications to real-world data and issues.

## Representation Learning with Deep Neural Networks

<img alt="Representation Learning Examples"
 src="/images/research/representation_learning-900x597.png"
 align="center"
 style="display:block; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto; width:70%;"/>

One of our fundamental research direction is representation learning  
with deep neural networks. Being able to understand, to disentangle,
and to control the latent factors of the underlying data would make
deep learning more scalable and more trustworthy. It would allow us to
gradually move from supervised to unsupervised learning and therefore
render model training less dependent on large amounts of
labels. Additionally, having control over the latent space of the data
provides interpretability of model inference, increase robustness, and
allows to characterise model parameter in the weight space.


## Analysis and Synthesis of Multimodal Data

<img alt="Multimodal Data Examples"
 src="/images/research/visual_audio-1-900x1031.png"
 align="center"
 style="display:block; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto; width:70%;">

One of our research goals is to make the large amount of visual and
audio content accessible. This includes besides the analysis of such
data also the generation of synthetic data with natural
characteristics. Currently we focus our research on neural
Text-to-Speech (TTS) generation for the German language. In this scope
we aim to develop novel approaches for speaker embedding, prosody
control, and voice transfer.


## Remote Sensing

<img alt="Remote Sensing Examples"
 src="/images/research/remote_sensing-900x694.png"
 align="center"
 style="display:block; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto; width:70%;">

We are interested in how we can utilize the vast amount of remote
sensing data for earth observation. In particular, we aim to develop
novel deep neural networks architectures able to consume the full
ensemble of spectral bands from todayâ€™s satellites for applications
such as climate change monitoring, natural disaster recovery, or
changes in land use and land cover over time.


## Audit Data Analytics

<img alt="Financial Data Examples"
 src="/images/research/fraud_detection-900x509.png"
 align="center"
 style="display:block; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto; width:70%;">

Our research in this area covers the analysis and forecasting of
financial time-series data on the one hand and anomaly detection in
transaction data on the other hand. Our research focuses in particular
on financial markets and the audit domain.
